

Potential sources for nonlinearities and up to date findings:

The data generation process may be intrinsically non-linear. A current
class of rational expectations mmodels is intrinsically non-linear. In
these models, forward looking agents forecast the future time path of
fundamentals; however, if agents expect that government reaction
functions are subject to stochastic change, or that authorities
will %% from Meese and Rose 1989
regulate the fundamentals driving exchange rate when the latter
approaches or reaches the band of a "target zone", then the
appropriate prediction formula may have a complicated non-linear form.

Nonlinear papers --> paper talking about regime changes and target
zones in exchange rate models includes: Engle and Hamilton (1988),
Flood and Garber (1983), Froot and Obstfeld (1989), Krugman (1988) and
Miller and Weller (1988).


Meese and Rose 1989 --> conclude that accounting for non-linearities
in current exchange rate models does not appear to be a promising way
to improve our ability to explain currency movements between major
OECD countries.
___________
Lucas 1976: occurrence of changes in policy regimes.
___________

Factors leading to changes in the long-run real exchange rate (such as
changes in oil prices, global trade patterns, etc.) may lead to
instability in the parameters of the class of structural exchange rate
models that are studied in this article.

Non linear techniques employed:

non parametric ACE model: MeeseRose 1989 (find no benefit of modeling
non-linearities). Chinn (1991) --> The diagnostic results are as
follows: the optimal transformations are almost always nonlinear, and
often nonmonotonic. Forecasting results: in-sample and out-of-sample
nonlinear forecasts yield substantial improvements over a random
walk. However, in exercises with forecasts from rolling regressions.
the random walk specification still dominates (over one-quarter
forecast horizons), albeit only marginally and insignificantly
so. Nonlinear specifications do slightly better than linear
competitors at four-quarter horizons.

Markov switching models/ regime switching model: englehamilton (1990)
(We reject the null hypothesis that exchange rates follow a random
walk in favor of our model of long swings)

Engle and Kim: Long run US/UK real exchange rate; interesting cause
they find results in line with GTS.

Varying-parameter estimation techniques based on recursive application
of the Kalm: wolff 1987 (find enhanced performance)

Varying coefficient models: schinasiswamy (1989) While our results on
fixed coefficient models support most of the Meese and Rogoff
conclusions, we find that when coefficients are allowed to change, an
important subset of conventional models of the dollar-pound, the
dollar-deutsche mark, and the dollar-.
BacchettaWincoop(2009) We conclude that it is not
time-varying parameters, but rather small sample estimation bias, that
explains the Meese-Rogo puzzle.

SETAR: kuglerkraeger(1993) In all cases considered, statistically significant
threshold effects could be found.

Markov switching model explaination: This model involves multiple
structures (equations) that can characterize the time series behaviors
in dierent regimes. By permitting switching between these
structures, this model is able to capture more complex dynamic
patterns. A novel feature of the Markov switching model is that the
switching mechanism is controlled by an unobservable state variable
that follows a rst-order Markov chain. In particular, the Markovian
property regulates that the current value of the state variable
depends on its immediate past value. As such, a structure may prevail
for a random period of time, and it will be replaced by another
structure when a switching takes place.

The Markov switching model also diers from the models of structural
changes. While the former allows for frequent changes at random time
points, the latter admits only occasion and exogenous changes. --> GTS
captures structural changes.



____
Micro based modeling literature
____

